Rtrieu/docs 5236 add service metadata structure page (#17680)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/service_catalog/service_metadata_structure.md

---
title: Service Metadata Structure (JSON Schemas)
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/service_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Service Catalog"
- link: "/api/latest/service-definition/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Service Definition API"
- link: "https://github.com/DataDog/schema/blob/main/service-catalog/v2/schema.json"
  tag: "GitHub"
  text: "Service Definition Schema"
---

## Overview

> Service Catalog uses Service Definition Schemas to store and display relevant metadata about your services. The schemas have built-in validation rules to ensure that only valid values are accepted and you can view warnings in the 'Definition' tab in the side panel for any selected services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service Catalog uses service definition schemas to store and display relevant metadata about your services. The schemas have built-in validation rules to ensure that only valid values are accepted and you can view warnings in the **Definition** tab on the side panel for any selected services. 
```

There are two supported versions of the schema:

> - V2 is the earliest version, and contains some experimental features, such as `dd-team` (this is removed from v2.1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- V2 is the earliest version, and contains some experimental features, such as `dd-team`, which are removed from v2.1.
```

> - V2.1 supports additional UI elements like service groupings, as well as fields like application, tier, lifecycle to make it easier to preserve context for your service ownership information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- V2.1 supports additional UI elements such as service groupings and fields like application, tier, and lifecycle to make it easier to preserve the context for your service ownership information.
```

> You can find the latest updates and additional information about the schemas on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information about the latest updates, see the schemas on GitHub.
```

## Service Definition Schema (v2.1)

> The Service Definition Schema is a structure that contains basic information about a service. See the [full schema on GitHub][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Service Definition Schema is a structure that contains basic information about a service. See the [full schema on GitHub][1].
```

application: shopist
description: shopist.com storefront
tier: tier1
lifecycle: production
links:
 - name: Demo Dashboard
   type: dashboard
   url: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard/krp-bq6-362
 - name: Common Operations
   type: runbook
   url: https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/
 - name: Disabling Deployments
   type: runbook
   url: https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/
 - name: Rolling Back Deployments
   type: runbook
   url: https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/
 - name: Source
   type: repo
   provider: github
   url: https://github.com/DataDog/shopist/tree/prod/rails-storefront
 - name: Deployment
   type: repo
   provider: github
   url: https://github.com/DataDog/shopist/blob/prod/k8s/dd-trace-demo/templates/rails-storefront-deployment.yaml
 - name: Deployment Information
   provider: link
   type: doc
   url: https://docs.datadoghq.com/
 - name: Service Documentation
   provider: link
   type: doc
   url: https://docs.datadoghq.com/
tags: []
integrations:
 pagerduty:
   service-url: https://datadog.pagerduty.com/service-directory/XXXXXXX
External Resources (Optional)
{{< /code-block >}}

## Service Definition Schema (v2)

> The Service Definition Schema is a structure that contains basic information about a service. See the [full schema on GitHub][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Service Definition Schema is a structure that contains basic information about a service. See the [full schema on GitHub][2].
```

links:
  - name: Demo Dashboard
    type: dashboard
    url: https://app.examplehq.com/dashboard/krp-bq6-362
  - name: Common Operations
    type: runbook
    url: https://examplehq.atlassian.net/wiki/
  - name: Disabling Deployments
    type: runbook
    url: https://examplehq.atlassian.net/wiki/
  - name: Rolling Back Deployments
    type: runbook
    url: https://examplehq.atlassian.net/wiki/
repos:
  - name: Source
    provider: github
    url: https://github.com/Example/shopist/tree/prod/rails-storefront
  - name: Deployment
    provider: github
    url: https://github.com/Example/shopist/blob/prod/k8s/dd-trace-demo/templates/rails-storefront-deployment.yaml
docs:
  - name: Deployment Information
    provider: link
    url: https://docs.datadoghq.com/
  - name: Service Documentation
    provider: link
    url: https://docs.datadoghq.com/
tags: []
integrations:
    pagerduty: https://example.pagerduty.com/service-directory/XYZYX
External Resources (Optional)
{{< /code-block >}}

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/schema/blob/main/service-catalog/v2.1/schema.json

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/schema/blob/main/service-catalog/v2/schema.json
```
